every currency has an expiration date
eventually the central bank exhausts the
potential of the currency just as it
continues to do all throughout history
there's no way that could back down from
this policy as it is pervasive just
check out the hundreds of examples there
have been all ending in the same fate
you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you let's look
at this graphic right away what we can
see here is $100 what is the value of
that you know you see the numbers 100
but what does that mean well looking at
this chart you can see based on the US
different states you'll see what that
value is
now the darker the color the more value
you get for your money and obviously the
more yellow the color then it is the
least value so you can see that
California for example you have 88
dollars and an area like for example
Kentucky you get a hundred and thirteen
dollars so your money goes a lot further
in Kentucky than it does in California
that's essentially what this graphic is
trying to show you it's an interesting
way to look at things because we're
always looking at the nominal values and
that is really not fair to assess
anything in its nominal value it needs
to be inflation adjusted and needs to be
in relation to real goods and that's the
argument I made in my first book where I
talk about that what does a hundred
dollars buy you you know back in
nineteen hundred I'm sure you could have
got a car for a hundred dollars then we
move on to maybe a motorcycle in the
1950s and now today you're lucky to get
a bus pass with a hundred dollars so
that same 100 no longer buys you what it
did in the past and that is because of
central banking that is the purpose of
central banking in fact so everyone's
friends here at the rating agencies have
been known to commit crimes when they
know
rate something that should be the worst
of the worst and they give it a good
rating they give it a go ahead the
little check mark SMP stress test I love
these shows subprime abs resilience the
worst of the worst once again being
given the green light while rising
losses have caused some concern in the
industry SMP Global ratings found that
subprime auto loans okay check this out
subprime auto loans bundled in
securitizations are still well
positioned to weather an economic
downturn so they weren't able to do so
the first time around and somehow
somehow they're able to do it this time
this is why I continuously call this the
financial crisis part 2 that's what we
are into the same mistakes being made
over and over again it goes into more
details about it but you get the points
the rating agencies are there for
nothing more than propaganda we can't
trust what they say or do because when
you can rate the lowest quality debt and
garbage that they can put out there as a
triple-a investment you know that they
are fraudulent and they are irrelevant
as far as I'm concerned
looking at this bitcoin and gold had a
bit of a dive urgence here quite
interesting because they've been
tracking each other now for several days
and you can see at this moment what a
divergence anyway Gold had dipped below
1,300 and Bitcoin had risen up around
4200 almost
at the time of this video it's
approximately at that number it's just
interesting to see I'm not going to make
any points about this I'll move on okay
then look at Bitcoin this is what I find
interesting and it brings me back to the
point I was making earlier in Zimbabwe a
country that only a few years ago
experienced one of the worst cases of
hyperinflation in history they're using
Bitcoin they're not a large percentage
of the people but it is growing because
of everything that's happening there
they're still in turmoil and people are
deciding that they want to use Bitcoin
as a means of transaction the use of
Bitcoin in Zimbabwe has grown
exponentially as the government has
begun to stop all credit card payments
and restrict the flow of cash into and
out of the country people wish to make
payments for vehicles I've been forced
to use Bitcoin and car lenders are happy
to accept now the price of Bitcoin u.s.
dollar wise you can see it's around
4,000 but in all of the chaos the price
of Bitcoin on the local exchange has
soared to seventy two hundred dollars
the premium reflects a frantic desire to
find ways to transact with an economy
where the government controls that may
traditional means impossible this is why
we need alternative means of transaction
that's why I like something like this
maybe Bitcoin isn't the be-all end-all I
don't know what's going to be developed
over the years but I know that using the
fraudulent banker systems are not good
as a means of trusting I would also say
that the same thing applies to gold and
silver where we are looking at this at
you know on these financial markets I
have a bar of gold and today it is worth
$1,300 per ounce and that is what it is
I can go anywhere in the world and get
$1,300 per ounce well
not really the way it works I mean that
might be the spot price but that's not
the way it works you might get a hell of
a lot more or you could get less but
looking at for example numismatic coins
or some people they know what they're
doing they know how to judge it and they
can make a very very exciting premium on
some of these coins so it doesn't
necessarily mean that the face value is
what we're going to take it we're going
to look at it in a different way where
it could be higher could be lower we
have to use your best judgment that's
what I'll say but I just wanted to
mention the fact that at the time you
want to sell or want to buy it may not
be what you had hoped for example if
somebody has to get some Bitcoin right
now they're paying nearly double the
amount it's a mob way so that's the way
I see it you know they're obviously
might be other ways to bring the money
in but just wanted to mention that I
think it's very interesting that
countries are turning to that when they
have problems they're just using Bitcoin
they're doing so in Venezuela they're
doing so in other places as well I've
been covering that here 44% of Puerto
Ricans lack clean drinking water quite a
sad story but one of the things that I
wanted to talk about was we need to be
prepared and it's not just your stocks
and your 401k you know that that's
something that you know insignificant
pales in comparison to clean drinking
water now for the most people who living
in the West they may think that
everything is just fine don't need to
worry about this it's only those
developing nations but it's really
something that I would watch out for if
you had your own water catchment system
you had your own well if you had your
own spring nearby maybe you'd be fine
because you can always attain more water
but what happens when you don't have
fresh water well then you have to go to
the government who's probably giving out
bottles of water or probably giving
instructions on what to do with the
water supply and everything else so you
go there and now you are endangering
yourself because you're going around the
mobs who are already upset and
everything else you don't want to have
that happen you want to be prepared so
one of the most important things is to
have a water filtration system I
recommend the Berkey is the one I've
been using for several years and the
reason I like it in part pill
obviously the how good it is is the fact
that it doesn't require power so I think
that is very important you know having
your own water supply having the ability
to catch your own water is very key and
that's all I'll move on mystery
surrounds metal towers popping up in
tunnels and bridges it might be a little
difficult to see I'll bring out the
highlighter here it's this large area at
the bottom and then sort of this antenna
like thing coming out of the top weird
and this is for the homeland obviously
what they're doing with it I don't know
I think it's more of what we had seen
before cameras microphones recording
devices there to make sure you're safe
just remember say cheese when the camera
hits the flash if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
when you give me a thumbs up it pushes
these videos higher up into the youtube
search rankings so I do appreciate that
when you do so and if you hate this
video if you hate my face
give me a thumbs down I enjoy that -
last but not least if you found this
video informative I know you'll find my
books the money GPS and my new release
global economic collapse even more
informative the first book is about the
four asset classes foundation history
and the new book takes on familiar
concepts but I also get into earning
your income reducing your debt and so on
so you could check those on out at
Amazon the links are in the description
below take care if you're still here
I just wanted to mention something you
know if you watched my previous video
where I talked about getting free land I
was a little bit caught off guard
actually by there were some of the
responses most of the responses of
course are positive but some of them
were not so positive but a lot of people
were upset that I didn't tell them how
to get not only the land for free but
the house on the land for free as well
and probably I shouldn't even bother
talking about this but what I'm trying
to do here is to give the maximum amount
of information in the shortest period of
time I'm also trying to give people
actual practical tips that I don't see
anywhere else
look if you want stock tips there are a
million websites that will tell you
which stocks to pick I don't do that
that's not what I do
I am in a totally different paradigm
than what those people are and I don't
judge anybody for what they do if they
if they want that absolutely by all
means that's not what I do
I just looked at it like we have daily
expenses we have to pay for some sort of
shelter food water the basics
anything else is all on top it's the
cherry on top the icing on the cake but
we need those three things so why not
get those sorted out and then we will be
able to fend off any sort of crisis that
occurs if our stock portfolio if you
want to own stocks that's totally fine
but what if those stock values plummeted
significantly is that going to hurt you
why ask yourself why well well then I
wouldn't be able to take that money on
and then buy my my first home or my next
home with my investment property or or
that boat that wanted or whatever you
know we have to think about it as it's
important to look at our daily expenses
that's the most important thing our
daily expenses look if you want to book
a trip to Bora Bora you can do so but
that's not essential some people might
think it is but it's not essential and
that's really what I'm trying to look at
I'm I don't want to go into it anymore I
just I was a little disappointed just
for some of the comments and that's all
thank you